.\" Manpage for eos-updater-prepare-volume.
.\" Documentation is under the same licence as the eos-updater package.
.TH man 8 "27 Feb 2017" "1.0" "eos\-updater\-prepare\-volume man page"
.\"
.SH NAME
.IX Header "NAME"
eos\-updater\-prepare\-volume — Endless OS Updater USB Drive Preparation Tool
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\-prepare\-volume [\-q] \fPvolume-directory\fB
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\-prepare\-volume\fP is a utility to prepare a USB drive with a
copy of the computer’s Endless OS updates, so those updates can be applied to
another computer running Endless OS, bringing it up to date.
.PP
The updates will be put in an OSTree repository in the \fBeos\-update\fP
directory on the USB drive. The path of the mounted drive must be passed as the
only argument to the program. Other files on the drive will not be affected.
.PP
\fBeos\-updater\-prepare\-volume\fP is designed to be run manually by system
administrators as a tool for updating computers which otherwise cannot be
updated. It is not intended to be used for routine updates of computers.
.PP
Currently, \fBeos\-updater\-prepare\-volume\fP cannot update an existing
repository on a USB drive — the \fBeos\-update\fP directory must not already
exist on the USB drive.
.PP
If the computer has been converted to not use OSTree, its OS updates cannot be
copied onto a USB drive using this tool.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.IX Header "OPTIONS"
.\"
.IP "\fB\-q\fP, \fB\-\-quiet\fP"
Do not print informational output.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.IX Header "EXAMPLES"
.\"
Example of updating \fIold\-machine\fP from \fInew\-machine\fP:
.PP
.nf
.RS
new\-machine$ eos\-updater\-prepare\-volume /run/media/user/some\-volume
.RE
.fi
.PP
On \fIold\-machine\fP, the updates can be applied automatically by running the
following after inserting the USB drive:
.PP
.nf
.RS
old\-machine$ eos\-autoupdater \-\-from\-volume /run/media/user/some\-volume
.RE
.fi
.PP
Alternatively, to do things manually, copy \fIeos\-updater.conf\fP from
\fI/usr/share/eos\-updater/\fP to \fI/etc/eos\-updater/\fP on
\fIold\-machine\fP, and edit it to look like:
.PP
.nf
.RS
[Download]
Order=volume;main;  # add the ‘volume’ source

[Source "volume"]
Path=/run/media/user/some\-volume  # wherever the volume will be mounted
.RE
.fi
.PP
Then run the following commands, waiting for the background output to show
success from the previous one first:
.PP
.nf
.RS
old\-machine$ eos\-updater\-ctl &
old\-machine$ eos\-updater\-ctl poll
old\-machine$ eos\-updater\-ctl fetch
old\-machine$ eos\-updater\-ctl apply
.RE
.fi
.PP
Finally, reboot \fIold\-machine\fP to finish applying the updates. Remove the
USB drive before or after rebooting.
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.IX Header "ENVIRONMENT"
.\"
\fPeos\-updater\-prepare\-volume\fP supports the standard GLib environment
variables for debugging. These variables are \fBnot\fP intended to be used in
production:
.\"
.IP \fI$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG\fP 4
.IX Item "$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG"
This variable can contain one or more debug domain names to display debug output
for. The value \fIall\fP will enable all debug output. The default is for no
debug output to be enabled.
.\"
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.IX Header "EXIT STATUS"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\-prepare\-volume\fP may return one of several error codes if it
encounters problems.
.\"
.IP "0" 4
.IX Item "0"
No problems occurred. The repository was successfully created on the USB drive.
.\"
.IP "1" 4
.IX Item "1"
There was an error while creating the repository.
.\"
.IP "2" 4
.IX Item "2"
An invalid option was passed to \fBeos\-updater\-prepare\-volume\fP on startup.
.\"
.IP "3" 4
.IX Item "3"
\fBeos\-updater\-prepare\-volume\fP was not run as root.
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.\"
\fBeos\-autoupdater\fP(8),
\fBeos\-updater\fP(8),
\fBeos\-updater.conf\fP(5),
.\"
.SH BUGS
.IX Header "BUGS"
.\"
Any bugs which are found should be reported on the project website:
.br
\fIhttps://support.endlessm.com/\fP
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.IX Header "AUTHOR"
.\"
Endless Mobile, Inc.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
.\"
Copyright © 2017 Endless Mobile, Inc.
