.\" Manpage for eos-updater.
.\" Documentation is under the same licence as the eos-updater package.
.TH man 8 "28 Feb 2017" "1.0" "eos\-updater man page"
.\"
.SH NAME
.IX Header "NAME"
eos\-updater — Endless OS Updater
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\fP is a service which manages the polling for, fetching of, and
applying of, updates to the Endless OS on this computer. It takes no arguments,
and exposes its functionality through a D\-Bus API at the well\-known name
\fBcom.endlessm.Updater\fP on the system bus.
.PP
To interact with \fBeos\-updater\fP, use a UI update tool,
\fBeos\-autoupdater\fP(8), or the \fBeos\-updater\-ctl\fP(8) tool.
.PP
\fBeos\-updater\fP supports updating the system from several sources. Typically,
a system will be updated only from the \fImain\fP source, which downloads
OSTree updates from Endless Mobile servers. The \fIlan\fP source can be enabled
to download updates from other computers on the local network (see
\fBeos\-update\-server\fP(8)); similarly, the \fIvolume\fP source can be
enabled and configured to load updates stored on a USB drive (see
\fBeos\-updater\-prepare\-volume\fP(8)). See \fBeos\-updater.conf\fP(5) for
information on how to change the update sources.
.PP
Updates are retrieved in several stages: \fIpoll\fP, \fIfetch\fP and
\fIapply\fP. The \fIpoll\fP stage checks each enabled update source to see if
it has any newer OSTree commits than are present on the booted system. If that
finds updates, the \fIfetch\fP stage downloads the OSTree objects and metadata
from the latest commit on the source to the local OSTree repository. If any
flatpaks should also be installed at the same time as that OSTree commit, those
flatpaks are also downloaded in accordance with
\fBeos\-updater\-flatpak\-autoinstall.d\fP(5) Then, the \fIapply\fP stage
deploys that commit and prepares the system to boot into it when next rebooted.
.PP
\fBeos\-update\fP provides the implementation of these stages, but the policy
of when to run each stage is provided by other processes — typically by
\fBeos\-autoupdater\fP(8), which automatically runs the stages periodically.
.PP
\fBeos\-updater\fP is designed to be D\-Bus activated by requests to the
well-known name \fBcom.endlessm.Updater\fP. It is integrated into
\fBsystemd\fP(1) via \fBeos\-autoupdater\fP(8), which is run on a timer as the
\fBeos\-autoupdater.timer\fP unit. \fBeos\-updater\fP should not be run
manually, but can be triggered by starting the \fBeos\-autoupdater.service\fP
unit. See \fBsystemctl\fP(1).
.PP
If the computer has been converted to not use OSTree, automatic updates are
permanently disabled.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.IX Header "OPTIONS"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\fP does not accept any options.
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.IX Header "ENVIRONMENT"
.\"
\fPeos\-updater\fP supports the standard GLib environment variables for
debugging. These variables are \fBnot\fP intended to be used in production:
.\"
.IP \fI$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG\fP 4
.IX Item "$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG"
This variable can contain one or more debug domain names to display debug output
for. The value \fIall\fP will enable all debug output. The default is for no
debug output to be enabled.
.\"
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.IX Header "EXIT STATUS"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\fP may return one of several error codes if it encounters
problems.
.\"
.IP "0" 4
No problems occurred. The updater ran successfully.
.\"
.IP "1" 4
.IX Item "1"
There was an error while setting up the updater. This is not used for errors
while updating — they are reported over the D\-Bus API.
.\"
.SH "FILES"
.IX Header "FILES"
.\"
.IP \fI/etc/eos\-updater/eos\-updater.conf\fP 4
.IX Item "/etc/eos\-updater/eos\-updater.conf"
.IX Item "/usr/local/share/eos\-updater/eos\-updater.conf"
.IX Item "/usr/share/eos\-updater/eos\-updater.conf"
Configuration file for \fBeos\-updater\fP. Defaults are loaded from
\fI/usr/local/share/eos\-updater/eos\-updater.conf\fP (if present) or
\fI/usr/share/eos\-updater/eos\-updater.conf\fP. See \fBeos\-updater.conf\fP(5).
.\"
.IP \fI/lib/systemd/system/eos\-autoupdater.timer\fP 4
.IX Item "/lib/systemd/system/eos\-autoupdater.timer"
\fBsystemd\fP(1) timer file which triggers \fBeos\-updater\fP to run
at regular intervals. See \fBsystemd.timer\fP(5) and \fBeos\-autoupdater\fP(8).
.\"
.IP \fI/lib/systemd/system/eos\-autoupdater.service\fP 4
.IX Item "/lib/systemd/system/eos\-autoupdater.service"
\fBsystemd\fP(1) service file which specifies the runtime environment for
\fBeos\-updater\fP. See \fBsystemd.service\fP(5) and \fBeos\-autoupdater\fP(8).
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.\"
\fBeos\-autoupdater\fP(8),
\fBeos\-update\-server\fP(8),
\fBeos\-updater.conf\fP(5),
\fBeos\-updater\-ctl\fP(8),
\fBeos\-updater\-flatpak\-installer\fP(8),
\fBeos\-updater\-flatpak\-autoinstall.d\fP(5)
.\"
.SH BUGS
.IX Header "BUGS"
.\"
Any bugs which are found should be reported on the project website:
.br
\fIhttps://support.endlessm.com/\fP
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.IX Header "AUTHOR"
.\"
Endless Mobile, Inc.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
.\"
Copyright © 2017 Endless Mobile, Inc.
