.\" Manpage for eos-autoupdater.
.\" Documentation is under the same licence as the eos-updater package.
.TH man 8 "28 Feb 2017" "1.0" "eos\-autoupdater man page"
.\"
.SH NAME
.IX Header "NAME"
eos\-autoupdater — Endless OS Automatic Updater
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
\fBeos\-autoupdater [\-\-force\-update] [\-\-from\-volume \fPpath\fB]\fP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
\fBeos\-autoupdater\fP is a service which couples with \fBeos\-updater\fP(8) to
automate downloading and applying updates. While \fBeos\-updater\fP(8) provides
the implementation of polling for, fetching, and applying updates;
\fBeos\-autoupdater\fP provides the policy of when to poll, and how many steps
of the process should be done automatically. It controls the D\-Bus API exposed
by \fBeos\-updater\fP(8).
.PP
\fBeos\-autoupdater\fP is designed to be run by \fBsystemd\fP(1) on a timer
(the \fBeos\-autoupdater.timer\fP unit) which is set to poll for updates around
once an hour. \fBeos\-autoupdater\fP should not typically be run manually, but
can be triggered by starting the \fBeos\-autoupdater.service\fP unit. This will
trigger a poll for updates (and it potentially fetches and applies any which
are found). See \fBsystemctl\fP(1).
.PP
To interact with \fBeos\-updater\fP more directly, use the
\fBeos\-updater\-ctl\fP(8) tool.
.PP
Updates are retrieved in several stages; see \fBeos\-updater\fP(8). The
autoupdater controls the transitions between these stages, automatically
advancing as far as it can up to (and including) the stage specified by
\fILastAutomaticStep=\fP in \fBeos\-autoupdater.conf\fP(5), but no further.
The user must manually trigger further stages.
.PP
The \fBeos\-autoupdater.conf\fP(5) configuration file allows several policies
to be specified to control when updates are polled for. Use the
\fB\-\-force\-update\fP option to ignore these policies and unconditionally
poll for an update.
.PP
To apply Endless OS updates from a USB drive which is not configured in
\fBeos\-updater.conf\fP(5), use the \fB\-\-from\-volume\fP option to provide
the USB drive mount path. By default, updates on USB drives will be ignored.
Use \fBeos\-updater\-prepare\-volume\fP(8) to put updates onto a USB drive.
.PP
If the computer has been converted to not use OSTree, automatic updates are
permanently disabled.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.IX Header "OPTIONS"
.\"
.IP "\fB\-\-force\-update\fP"
Force the updater to poll for an update (and potentially fetch and apply it),
regardless of the policies configured in \fBeos\-autoupdater.conf\fP(5).
.\"
.IP "\fB\-\-from\-volume=\fP"
Path to a mounted USB drive which contains Endless OS updates prepared using
\fBeos\-updater\-prepare\-volume\fP(8). Force the updater to poll for updates
from the USB drive, and fetch and apply them locally if they are more recent
than the booted operating system.
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.IX Header "ENVIRONMENT"
.\"
\fPeos\-autoupdater\fP supports the standard GLib environment variables for
debugging. These variables are \fBnot\fP intended to be used in production:
.\"
.IP \fI$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG\fP 4
.IX Item "$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG"
This variable can contain one or more debug domain names to display debug output
for. The value \fIall\fP will enable all debug output. The default is for no
debug output to be enabled.
.\"
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.IX Header "EXIT STATUS"
.\"
\fBeos\-autoupdater\fP may return one of several error codes if it encounters
problems.
.\"
.IP "0" 4
.IX Item "0"
No problems occurred. The updater ran successfully, and either polled for
updates, or determined not to based on policies configured in
\fBeos\-autoupdater.conf\fP(5).
.\"
.IP "1" 4
.IX Item "1"
There was a D\-Bus error while running the updater, or the updater entered an
error state after a poll, fetch or apply operation.
.\"
.IP "2" 4
.IX Item "2"
An invalid option was passed to \fBeos\-autoupdater\fP on startup.
.\"
.IP "3" 4
.IX Item "3"
The configuration file for \fBeos\-autoupdater\fP could not be loaded or
parsed.
.\"
.SH "FILES"
.IX Header "FILES"
.\"
.IP \fI/etc/eos\-updater/eos\-autoupdater.conf\fP 4
.IX Item "/etc/eos\-updater/eos\-autoupdater.conf"
.IX Item "/usr/local/share/eos\-updater/eos\-autoupdater.conf"
.IX Item "/usr/share/eos\-updater/eos\-autoupdater.conf"
Configuration file for \fBeos\-autoupdater\fP. Defaults are loaded from
\fI/usr/local/share/eos\-updater/eos\-autoupdater.conf\fP (if present) or
\fI/usr/share/eos\-updater/eos\-autoupdater.conf\fP. See
\fBeos\-autoupdater.conf\fP(5).
.\"
.IP \fI/lib/systemd/system/eos\-autoupdater.timer\fP 4
.IX Item "/lib/systemd/system/eos\-autoupdater.timer"
\fBsystemd\fP(1) timer file which triggers \fBeos\-autoupdater\fP to run
at regular intervals. See \fBsystemd.timer\fP(5).
.\"
.IP \fI/lib/systemd/system/eos\-autoupdater.service\fP 4
.IX Item "/lib/systemd/system/eos\-autoupdater.service"
\fBsystemd\fP(1) service file which specifies the runtime environment for
\fBeos\-autoupdater\fP. See \fBsystemd.service\fP(5).
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.\"
\fBeos\-autoupdater.conf\fP(5),
\fBeos\-updater\fP(8),
\fBeos\-updater\-ctl\fP(8),
\fBeos\-updater\-prepare\-volume\fP(8)
.\"
.SH BUGS
.IX Header "BUGS"
.\"
Any bugs which are found should be reported on the project website:
.br
\fIhttps://support.endlessm.com/\fP
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.IX Header "AUTHOR"
.\"
Endless Mobile, Inc.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
.\"
Copyright © 2017 Endless Mobile, Inc.
