.\" Manpage for eos-updater-ctl.
.\" Documentation is under the same licence as the eos-updater package.
.TH man 8 "28 Feb 2017" "1.0" "eos\-updater\-ctl man page"
.\"
.SH NAME
.IX Header "NAME"
eos\-updater\-ctl — Endless OS Updater Controller
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\-ctl [\fPcommand\fB]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\-ctl\fP is a utility to manually control the update process of
\fBeos\-updater\fP(8), triggering it to move through states in the update
sequence. It accepts three main commands: \fBpoll\fP, \fBfetch\fP and
\fBapply\fP.
These correspond with the states described in \fBeos\-updater\fP(8), with each
command triggering a progression to the named state. Normally, the updater is
moved through these states automatically by \fBeos\-autoupdater\fP(8) —
\fBeos\-updater\-ctl\fP allows this to be done manually. Execution of the
command will block on successful progression through the named state unless the
\fB\-\-no\-block\fP option is provided: for example, the \fBfetch\fP command
will wait for an update to be downloaded rather than completing immediately.
.PP
If the \fBupdate\fP command is given, all three states will be moved through
in sequence.
.PP
If the \fBmonitor\fP command is given (or if no command is given),
\fBeos\-updater\-ctl\fP will monitor the state of
\fBeos\-updater\fP(8) until interrupted, printing out its D\-Bus properties
every time they change. If the updater disappears off the system bus,
\fBeos\-updater\-ctl\fP will wait until it reappears and will resume
monitoring.
.PP
The \fBserver\fP command is used to control the configuration of
\fBeos\-update\-server\fP(8). Its \fBenable\fP and \fBdisable\fP subcommands
make the necessary configuration and update changes to enable or disable
advertising and serving updates to computers on the local network.
.\"
.SH COMMANDS
.IX Header "COMMANDS"
.\"
.IP "\fBapply\fP"
Deploy updates which were downloaded in the previous \fBfetch\fP stage, and
ready the computer to boot into an updated OSTree deployment when next rebooted.
This command does not reboot the computer.
.\"
.IP "\fBfetch\fP"
Download updates which were found in the previous \fBpoll\fP stage.
.\"
.IP "\fBmonitor\fP"
Monitor the status of \fBeos\-updater\fP(8), printing its state changes and
D\-Bus name changes. Run until killed.
.\"
.IP "\fBpoll\fP"
Check all configured update sources for available updates.
.\"
.IP "\fBserver\fP [\fBenable\fP|\fBdisable\fP]\fP"
Enable or disable advertising and serving updates to the local network using
\fBeos\-update\-server\fP(8).
.\"
.IP "\fBupdate\fP"
Run all three update stages in sequence: poll, fetch, apply.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.IX Header "OPTIONS"
.\"
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-block\fP"
Do not wait for the given command to result in a state change in
\fBeos\-updater\fP(8); instead, return immediately. This is understood by the
\fBpoll\fP, \fBfetch\fP and \fBapply\fP commands.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fP"
Output no informational messages; only errors.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.IX Header "EXAMPLES"
.\"
Example of updating a computer manually using \fBeos\-updater\-ctl\fP:
.PP
.nf
.RS
$ eos\-updater\-ctl update
.RE
.fi
.PP
Example of polling for updates manually:
.PP
.nf
.RS
$ eos\-updater\-ctl poll
.RE
.fi
.\"
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.IX Header "EXIT STATUS"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\-ctl\fP may return one of several error codes if it encounters
problems.
.\"
.IP "0" 4
.IX Item "0"
No problems occurred. The specified command was successfully sent to the
updater; or there were no problems in monitoring the updater’s state.
.\"
.IP "1" 4
.IX Item "1"
There was an error while communicating with the updater or the requested
command resulted in an error state in the updater.
.\"
.IP "2" 4
.IX Item "2"
An invalid option was passed to \fBeos\-updater\-ctl\fP on startup.
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.\"
\fBeos\-autoupdater\fP(8),
\fBeos\-updater\fP(8)
.\"
.SH BUGS
.IX Header "BUGS"
.\"
Any bugs which are found should be reported on the project website:
.br
\fIhttps://support.endlessm.com/\fP
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.IX Header "AUTHOR"
.\"
Endless Mobile, Inc.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
.\"
Copyright © 2017 Endless Mobile, Inc.
