.\" Manpage for eos-updater-flatpak-installer.
.\" Documentation is under the same licence as the eos-updater package.
.TH man 8 "10 Nov 2017" "1.0" "eos\-updater\-flatpak\-installer man page"
.\"
.SH NAME
.IX Header "NAME"
eos\-updater\-flatpak\-installer — Endless OS Updater Flatpak Installer
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\-flatpak\-installer [\-m \fPmode\fB] [\-p]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\-flatpak\-installer\fP installs downloaded flatpaks on Endless OS
updates upon booting into the new OS deployment. It is the part of the system that
ensures that when new flatpaks are installed on OS updates, they are
only made available when rebooting into the new OS deployment and not while
the old OS deployment is still running.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.IX Header "OPTIONS"
.\"
.IP "\fB\-m\fP, \fB\-\-mode=\fP"
Which mode to run the flatpak installer in. (Default: \fBperform\fP.)
\".
When set to \fBperform\fP, the installer will examine the list of applications
in the directories specified by \fBeos\-updater\-flatpak\-autoinstall.d\fP(5)
and the counter state in
\fI/var/lib/eos\-application\-tools/flatpak\-autoinstall.progress\fP, then for
each basename, perform only newly updated actions and save the most up to date
serial number for each file in ther counter state file.
\".
When set to \fBstamp\fP, \fBeos\-updater\-flatpak\-installer\fP will only save
the updated actions to
\fI/var/lib/eos\-application\-tools/flatpak\-autoinstall.progress\fP.
\".
When set to \fBcheck\fP, the tool will check to see if all actions are applied (e.g., that
applications that should have been installed are installed and every app that
should have been uninstalled is not installed).
.\"
.IP "\fB\-p\fP, \fB\-\-pull\fP"
Pull flatpaks as well as deploying them. By default, flatpaks are
not pulled during this step; it is expected that they will be pulled by
\fBeos\-updater\fP(8) when it fetches and applies system updates.
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.IX Header "ENVIRONMENT"
.\"
\fPeos\-updater\-flatpak\-installer\fP supports the standard GLib environment
variables for debugging. These variables are \fBnot\fP intended to be used in
production:
.\"
.IP \fI$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG\fP 4
.IX Item "$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG"
This variable can contain one or more debug domain names to display debug output
for. The value \fIall\fP will enable all debug output. The default is for no
debug output to be enabled.
.\"
.SH "KERNEL COMMAND LINE"
.IX Header "KERNEL COMMAND LINE"
.\"
If the \fBeos\-updater\-flatpak\-installer.service\fP unit is started when
the kernel command line contains \fBeos\-updater\-disable\fP, then
it will exit immediately. If started manually, it will execute as normal,
regardless of the kernel command line.
.\"
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.IX Header "EXIT STATUS"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\-flatpak\-installer\fP may return one of several error codes
if it encounters problems.
.\"
.IP "0" 4
.IX Item "0"
No problems occurred. The check, stamp or perform operation completed
successfully.
.\"
.IP "1" 4
.IX Item "1"
There was an error while loading or manipulating the flatpak installation.
.\"
.IP "2" 4
.IX Item "2"
An invalid option was passed to \fBeos\-updater\-flatpak\-installer\fP on
startup.
.\"
.IP "3" 4
.IX Item "3"
The \fBcheck\fP operation found an inconsistency. Only returned with
\fB\-\-mode=check\fP.
.\"
.IP "4" 4
.IX Item "4"
The \fBapply\fP operation failed to apply one or more actions. Only returned
with \fB\-\-mode=apply\fP.
.\"
.SH "FILES"
.IX Header "FILES"
.\"
.IP \fI/var/lib/eos\-application\-tools/flatpak\-autoinstall.d/*\fP 4
.IX Item "/etc/eos\-application\-tools/flatpak\-autoinstall.d/*"
.IX Item "/var/lib/eos\-applications\-tools/flatpak\-autoinstall.d/*"
.IX Item "/usr/share/eos\-application\-tools/flatpak\-autoinstall.d/*"
Each of the files in this directory contain a list of actions to be applied
by the installer. Files are also loaded from matching subdirectories in
\fI/var/lib\fP and \fI/usr/share\fP. See
\fBeos\-updater\-flatpak\-autoinstall.d\fP(5).
.\"
.IP \fI/var/lib/eos\-application\-tools/flatpak\-autoinstall.progress\fP 4
.IX Item "/etc/eos\-application\-tools/flatpak\-autoinstall.progress"
Local state file storing the serial numbers of the latest applied actions for
each basename in the \fIautoinstall.d\fP directories.
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater.service\fP(8),
\fBeos\-updater\fP(8),
\fBeos\-updater\-flatpak\-autoinstall.d\fP(5),
\fBflatpak\fP(1)
.\"
.SH BUGS
.IX Header "BUGS"
.\"
Any bugs which are found should be reported on the project website:
.br
\fIhttps://support.endlessm.com/\fP
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.IX Header "AUTHOR"
.\"
Endless Mobile, Inc.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
.\"
Copyright © 2017 Endless Mobile, Inc.
