.\" Manpage for eos-updater-flatpak-autoinstall.d.5.
.\" Documentation is under the same licence as the eos-updater package.
.TH man 5 "8 Nov 2017" "1.0" "eos\-updater\-flatpak\-autoinstall.d man page"
.\"
.SH NAME
.IX Header "NAME"
eos\-updater\-flatpak\-autoinstall.d — Endless OS Configuration for Flatpak Installation on Updates
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
\fB/etc/eos\-application\-tools/flatpak\-autoinstall.d/\fP
.br
.\"
\fB/var/lib/eos\-application\-tools/flatpak\-autoinstall.d/\fP
.br
.\"
\fB/usr/share/eos\-application\-tools/flatpak\-autoinstall.d/\fP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\-flatpak\-autoinstall.d\fP provides a list of ‘flatpak ref action’
files, which specify flatpaks that should be installed, updated and uninstalled
by \fBeos\-updater\-flatpak\-installer\fP(8) when booting into a new deployment.
.PP
Configuration files take priority over each other in the directory descending
order listed above. If a file in a higher priority directory has the same
basename as a file in a lower priority directory, only the configuration from
the higher priority directory is used. The list of actions to apply is
determined first sorting the new actions in each file ascending by its
serial number, then by sorting the files in lexicographical order
and concatenating their sorted contents to each other. This means that the
most up\-to\-date action in a filename that is lexicographically ordered after
another filename will take priority in the event that the two
most up\-to\-date actions conflict, even if the most up\-to\-date action in the
lower\-priority file has a newer
serial number.
.\"
.SH ACTION SPECIFICATION
.IX Header "ACTION SPECIFICATION"
.\"
The file format of each ‘flatpak ref action’ file in a
\fBeos\-updater\-flatpak\-autoinstall.d\fP directory is
RFC\ 7159 compliant JSON. Each file must be a JSON array containing
objects describing a ‘flatpak ref action’, as described below in
\fIFlatpak Ref Action\fP. These files are intended to be append\-only
and the \fBserial\fP property in each object must be a monotonically
increasing counter within the domain of that filename.
.\"
.IP "\fIFlatpak Ref Action\fP"
.IX Item "Flatpak Ref Action"
A JSON object containing, at minimum, properties \fBaction\fP,
\fBserial\fP, \fBbranch\fP and optionally \fBfilters\fP. Valid values for
\fBaction\fP are \fBinstall\fP, \fBupdate\fP and \fBuninstall\fP,
each having their own required properties as explained below. The only valid
type for \fBserial\fP, is an integer, which must be monotonically
increasing as new entries are appended to the file. \fBbranch\fP must refer
to a valid branch for the given flatpak.
.\"
.IP "\fIThe \fBfilters\fP entry\fP"
.IX Item "The filters entry"
A \fIFlatpak Ref Action\fP may have a \fBfilters\fP entry which is a JSON
object with optional properties \fBarchitecture\fP, \fB~architecture\fP,
\fBlocale\fP and \fB~locale\fP. Each filter property takes a JSON
array of strings containing architectures or locales to apply to the filter.
.IP
A locale is as specified in \fBsetlocale\fP(3).
.IP
Note that the \fBlocale\fP and \fB~locale\fP filters cannot be used until after
the next checkpoint after the EOS 3.3 checkpoint, as support for them was broken
in versions of \fBeos\-updater\fP before then.
.IP
Where a filter is prefixed with a tilde (\fB~\fP), the action will not be applied
if the system architecture or locales matches any entry in the array. Otherwise,
the action will only be applied if the system architecture or locales matches
at least one entry in the array. It is an error to specify a filter and its
inverse.
.IP
Where an action is filtered out and not applied, it will never be applied
again, even if the property being filtered on changes. For instance, if the
system locale changes, the action will not be re\-evaluated to see if it
matches the new locale.
.\"
.IP "\fI\fBinstall\fP actions\fP"
.IX Item "install actions"
Where the \fBaction\fP property of a \fIFlatpak Ref Action\fP entry is
\fBinstall\fP, the action will describe a flatpak that should be
installed upon the next boot of the deployment in which the action was
introduced. The entry must have the additional properties \fBname\fP,
\fBref\-kind\fP and both \fBcollection\-id\fP and \fBremote\fP,
which describe the flatpak app ID, whether the flatpak is a
runtime or an app and either the \fBostree\fP(1) collection ID or remote to
install the app from. See \fBflatpak\fP(1) and \fBostree\fP(1) for more
information on flatpak app IDs, ref\-kinds and remotes, and \fBostree\fP(1)
on collection IDs generally. If the flatpak is already installed when the action
is applied, \fBeos\-updater\-flatpak\-installer\fP(8) will attempt to upgrade it.
.IP
Because both \fBcollection\-id\fP and \fBremote\fP are specified, the
updater will check that the given remote matches the first remote for
the given collection ID, otherwise an error occurs. If neither
\fBcollection\-id\fP nor \fBremote\fP are specified, an error
occurs.
.IP
Note that flatpaks are not pulled from the remote upon booting into
the deployment, they are instead downloaded by \fBeos\-updater\fP(8) during its
‘fetch’ step whilst it prepares the commit to be deployed.
\."
.IP "\fI\fBupdate\fP actions\fP"
.IX Item "update actions"
Where the \fBaction\fP property of a \fIFlatpak Ref Action\fP entry is
\fBupdate\fP, the action will describe a flatpak that should be
updated upon the next boot of the deployment in which the action was
introduced, if (and only if) that flatpak is installed at the time. The entry
must have the additional properties \fBname\fP, \fBref\-kind\fP.
\."
.IP "\fI\fBuninstall\fP actions\fP"
.IX Item "uninstall actions"
Where the \fBaction\fP property of a \fIFlatpak Ref Action\fP entry is
\fBuninstall\fP, the action will describe a flatpak that should be
uninstalled upon the next boot of the deployment in which the action was
introduced. The entry must have the additional properties \fBname\fP,
\fBref\-kind\fP. It is not an error if the flatpak is already uninstalled
when the action is applied.
\."
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.IX Header "EXAMPLES"
.\"
[
    {
        "action": "install",
        "branch": "master",
        "serial": 2017100100,
        "ref\-kind": "app",
        "name": "org.example.MyApp",
        "collection\-id": "com.endlessm.Apps",
        "remote": "eos\-apps"
    },
    {
        "action": "uninstall",
        "branch": "eos3",
        "serial": 2017100101,
        "ref\-kind": "app",
        "name": "org.example.OutdatedApp"
    },
    {
        "action": "install",
        "branch": "eos3",
        "serial": 2017100500,
        "ref\-kind": "runtime",
        "name": "org.example.PreinstalledRuntime",
        "remote": "eos\-runtimes",
        "collection\-id": "com.endlessm.Os"
    },
    {
        "action": "install",
        "branch": "eos3",
        "serial": 2017110100,
        "ref\-kind": "runtime",
        "name": "org.example.NVidiaRuntime",
        "collection\-id": "com.endlessm.Os",
        "remote": "eos\-runtimes"
    },
    {
        "action": "install",
        "branch": "eos3",
        "serial": 2017110200,
        "ref\-kind": "app",
        "name": "org.example.IndonesiaNonArmGame",
        "collection\-id": "com.endlessm.Apps",
        "remote": "eos\-apps",
        "filters": {
            "locale": ["id_ID"],
            "~architecture": ["armhf"]
        }
    }
]
\."
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\fP(8),
\fBeos\-updater\-flatpak\-installer\fP(8)
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.IX Header "AUTHOR"
.\"
Endless Mobile, Inc.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
.\"
Copyright © 2017 Endless Mobile, Inc.
