.\" Manpage for eos-update-server.conf.
.\" Documentation is under the same licence as the eos-updater package.
.TH man 5 "13 Apr 2017" "1.0" "eos\-update\-server.conf man page"
.\"
.SH NAME
.IX Header "NAME"
eos\-update\-server.conf — Endless OS OSTree Server Configuration
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
\fB/etc/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf\fP
.br
\fB/usr/local/share/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf\fP
.br
\fB/usr/share/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf\fP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
\fBeos\-update\-server.conf\fP provides the configuration for
\fBeos\-update\-server\fP(8) and \fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP(8). It determines
whether the server and its DNS\-SD adverts are enabled to distribute Endless OS
updates to other computers on the local network, and the details of any
additional repositories to serve.
.PP
The configuration file contains a single mandatory section,
\fI[Local Network Updates]\fP, and zero or more optional sections,
\fI[Repository 0–65535]\fP, whose keys are described below. Each
\fI[Repository 0–65535]\fP section describes a repository to serve; if there are no
such sections, the default \fI/ostree/repo\fP repository is served with its
\fIRemoteName=\fP set to the value of the \fB\-\-serve\-remote=\fP option passed
to \fBeos\-update\-server\fP(8). Each section must be numbered uniquely; its
index forms the root of the HTTP paths for requesting content from the
repository. The indexes don’t have to be ordered or contiguous, and up to 65536
repositories are supported (the maximum index is 65535). Index 0 is treated
specially: it indicates a root with no prefix, and is intended to be used for
the ‘main’ repository on a server.
.PP
Default values are stored in
\fI/usr/share/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf\fP, which must always
exist. To override the configuration, copy it to
\fI/usr/local/share/eos\-updater/\fP or \fI/etc/eos\-updater/\fP. Configuration
in \fI/etc\fP overrides that in \fI/usr\fP.
.\"
.SH [Local Network Updates] SECTION OPTIONS
.IX Header "[Local Network Updates] SECTION OPTIONS"
.\"
.IP "\fIAdvertiseUpdates=\fP"
.IX Item "AdvertiseUpdates="
Whether to advertise and distribute updates over the local network. This may be
\fItrue\fP or \fIfalse\fP. If \fItrue\fP, \fBeos\-update\-server\fP(8) and
\fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP(8) are enabled; otherwise, they will both refuse to
advertise or distribute updates.
\"
.SH [Repository 0–65535] SECTION OPTIONS
.IX Header "[Repository 0–65535] SECTION OPTIONS"
.\"
.IP "\fIPath=\fP"
.IX Item "Path="
Path to the repository on the local file system which is to be served over the
network.
.\"
.IP "\fIRemoteName=\fP"
.IX Item "RemoteName="
Name of the OSTree remote to mirror as the local repository. If a head ref is
requested which is not in the local repository, it will be resolved using this
remote. If the default repository configuration is used, the value of the
\fB\-\-serve\-remote=\fP option to \fBeos\-update\-server\fP(8) will be used.
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\fP(8),
\fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP(8),
\fBeos\-update\-server\fP(8)
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.IX Header "AUTHOR"
.\"
Endless Mobile, Inc.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
.\"
Copyright © 2017 Endless Mobile, Inc.
