.\" Manpage for eos-update-server.
.\" Documentation is under the same licence as the eos-updater package.
.TH man 8 "27 Feb 2017" "1.0" "eos\-update\-server man page"
.\"
.SH NAME
.IX Header "NAME"
eos\-update\-server — Endless OS OSTree Server
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
\fBeos\-update\-server [\-q] [\-r \fPremote\-name\fB] [\-f \fPport\-file\fB]
[\-t \fPtimeout\-secs\fB] [\-p \fPlocal\-port\fB] [\-c \fPconfig\-file\fB]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
\fBeos\-update\-server\fP is a HTTP server which exposes this computer’s OSTree
repository to other computers on the network, to allow Endless OS updates to be
shared between computers. The DNS\-SD advertisement of these updates to the
local network is controlled by \fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP(8) and
\fBeos\-update\-server.conf\fP(5).
.PP
When running, \fBeos\-update\-server\fP waits for requests on the specified
port (default: 43381) and serves signed OSTree objects over HTTP. There is no
authentication or encryption, as all objects are signed centrally.
.PP
Advertisement of updates can be disabled by setting the \fIAdvertiseUpdates=\fP
key to \fIfalse\fP in \fBeos\-update\-server.conf\fP(5).
.PP
\fBeos\-update\-server\fP is designed to be run by \fBsystemd\fP(1), being
socket activated by \fIeos\-update\-server.socket\fP. There should be no need
to run \fBeos\-update\-server\fP manually.
.PP
If the computer has been converted to not use OSTree, advertisement of updates
to the local network is permanently disabled.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.IX Header "OPTIONS"
.\"
.IP "\fB\-q\fP, \fB\-\-quiet\fP"
Do not print informational output.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-p\fP, \fB\-\-local\-port=\fP"
Local network port to listen for incoming HTTP connections on. If this option
is provided with the value \fI0\fP, a random port will be allocated; use the
\fB\-\-port\-file\fP option to read it. (Default: Receive a socket from
\fBsystemd\fP(1).)
.\"
.IP "\fB\-f\fP, \fB\-\-port\-file=\fP"
Path to a file to create and write the number of the local network port which
\fBeos\-update\-server\fP is listening on in. This is useful when combined with
the \fB\-\-local\-port\fP option. (Default: Do not write the port number
anywhere.)
.\"
.IP "\fB\-t\fP, \fB\-\-timeout=\fP"
Number of seconds of inactivity to wait for before timing out and exiting. If
zero or a negative number is provided, no timeout is implemented and
\fBeos\-update\-server\fP will run indefinitely. (Default: 200 seconds.)
.\"
.IP "\fB\-r\fP, \fB\-\-serve\-remote=\fP"
Name of the OSTree remote to serve from the local repository. The remote must
be configured in the local repository. This is intended to be used for testing.
(Default: \fIeos\fP.)
.\"
.IP "\fB\-c\fP, \fB\-\-config\-file=\fP"
Load configuration for \fBeos\-update\-server\fP from the given file. This is
intended to be used for testing. (Default:
\fI/etc/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf\fP.)
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.IX Header "ENVIRONMENT"
.\"
\fPeos\-update\-server\fP supports the standard GLib environment variables for
debugging. These variables are \fBnot\fP intended to be used in production:
.\"
.IP \fI$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG\fP 4
.IX Item "$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG"
This variable can contain one or more debug domain names to display debug output
for. The value \fIall\fP will enable all debug output. The default is for no
debug output to be enabled.
.\"
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.IX Header "EXIT STATUS"
.\"
\fBeos\-update\-server\fP may return one of several error codes if it encounters
problems.
.\"
.IP "0" 4
.IX Item "0"
No problems occurred. The server ran, responded to zero or more requests, and
then exited due to being explicitly closed, or timing out due to inactivity
(see the \fB\-\-timeout\fP option).
.\"
.IP "1" 4
.IX Item "1"
There was an error while serving updates to a peer.
.\"
.IP "2" 4
.IX Item "2"
An invalid option was passed to \fBeos\-update\-server\fP on startup.
.\"
.IP "3" 4
.IX Item "3"
The configuration file for \fBeos\-update\-server\fP could not be loaded or
parsed.
.\"
.IP "4" 4
.IX Item "4"
Advertising updates is disabled in the configuration file,
\fBeos\-update\-server.conf\fP(5), by the \fIAdvertiseUpdates=\fP key.
.\"
.IP "5" 4
.IX Item "5"
No suitable listening sockets were received from \fBsystemd\fP(1).
.\"
.SH "FILES"
.IX Header "FILES"
.\"
.IP \fI/etc/avahi/services/eos\-updater.service\fP 4
.IX Item "/etc/avahi/services/eos\-updater.service"
Describes the DNS\-SD record for Avahi to advertise to the local network. No
advertisement will be made if this file is not present. This file is controlled
by \fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP(8).
.\"
.IP \fI/etc/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf\fP 4
.IX Item "/etc/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf"
.IX Item "/usr/local/share/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf"
.IX Item "/usr/share/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf"
Configuration file for \fBeos\-update\-server\fP. Defaults are loaded from
\fI/usr/local/share/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf\fP (if present) or
\fI/usr/share/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf\fP. See
\fBeos\-update\-server.conf\fP(5).
.\"
.IP \fI/lib/systemd/system/eos\-update\-server.socket\fP 4
.IX Item "/lib/systemd/system/eos\-update\-server.socket"
\fBsystemd\fP(1) socket file which sets up \fBeos\-update\-server\fP’s
listening socket for accepting incoming connections. See
\fBsystemd.socket\fP(5).
.\"
.IP \fI/lib/systemd/system/eos\-update\-server.service\fP 4
.IX Item "/lib/systemd/system/eos\-update\-server.service"
\fBsystemd\fP(1) service file which specifies the runtime environment for
\fBeos\-update\-server\fP. See \fBsystemd.service\fP(5).
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP(8),
\fBeos\-updater\fP(8),
\fBeos\-update\-server.conf\fP(5)
.\"
.SH BUGS
.IX Header "BUGS"
.\"
Any bugs which are found should be reported on the project website:
.br
\fIhttps://support.endlessm.com/\fP
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.IX Header "AUTHOR"
.\"
Endless Mobile, Inc.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
.\"
Copyright © 2017 Endless Mobile, Inc.
