.\" Manpage for eos-updater-avahi.
.\" Documentation is under the same licence as the eos-updater package.
.TH man 8 "20 Feb 2017" "1.0" "eos\-updater\-avahi man page"
.\"
.SH NAME
.IX Header "NAME"
eos\-updater\-avahi — Endless OS Avahi Advertisement Updater
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\-avahi [\-q] [\-d \fPservice\-directory\fB]
[\-c \fPconfig\-file\fB]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP is a utility to update the Avahi advertisements for
Endless OS updates being advertised by this computer to others on the local
network. When run, it checks whether advertising updates is enabled, and which
OSTree commits are present in the computer’s repository, and adds, updates or
removes the Avahi advertisements for them.
.PP
The Avahi advertisements are DNS\-SD records which allow other computers on the
local network to check which updates are available to download from this
computer, and which port to download them from. By default, they are stored in
\fI/etc/avahi/services/eos\-ostree\-updater\-*.service\fP (and, on older
machines, \fI/etc/avahi/services/eos\-updater.service\fP).
.PP
Advertisement of updates can be disabled by setting the \fIAdvertiseUpdates=\fP
key to \fIfalse\fP in \fBeos\-update\-server.conf\fP(5).
.PP
\fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP is designed to be run by \fBsystemd\fP(1), whenever
the \fIeos\-updater\-avahi.path\fP unit is triggered. By default, it is
triggered whenever the system OSTree repository is updated, or the updater
configuration is changed. There should be no need to run
\fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP manually.
.PP
If the computer has been converted to not use OSTree, advertisement of updates
to the local network is permanently disabled.
.\"
.SH ROUTER CONFIGURATION
.IX HEADER "ROUTER CONFIGURATION"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP relies on DNS\-SD advertisements being successfully
multicast across the local network, via mDNS over IPv4 or IPv6 (or both). As
multicast is expensive on wireless networks, some routers do not forward
multicast packets to wireless peers unless they can determine that the peers are
interested in receiving them. This is typically achieved by listening for IGMP
requests from the peers to establish their interest in receiving multicast
packets.
.PP
If DNS\-SD advertisement of updates in the local network is not working, or if
it works when a peer is first started, but then times out after a number of
minutes, please ensure that the relevant multicast options are enabled in the
local network’s router. These might be labelled \fIIGMP snooping\fP,
\fIIGMP proxy\fP or \fImulticast routing\fP, for example.
.PP
mDNS problems can be debugged using \fBavahi\-browse\fP(1).
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.IX Header "OPTIONS"
.\"
.IP "\fB\-q\fP, \fB\-\-quiet\fP"
Do not print informational output.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-d\fP, \fB\-\-service\-directory=\fP"
Look for and modify Avahi service files in the given directory. This is
intended to be used for testing. (Default: \fI/etc/avahi/services\fP.)
.\"
.IP "\fB\-c\fP, \fB\-\-config\-file=\fP"
Load configuration for \fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP from the given file. This is
intended to be used for testing. (Default:
\fI/etc/eos\-updater/eos\-updater\-avahi.conf\fP.)
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.IX Header "ENVIRONMENT"
.\"
\fPeos\-updater\-avahi\fP supports the standard GLib environment variables for
debugging. These variables are \fBnot\fP intended to be used in production:
.\"
.IP \fI$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG\fP 4
.IX Item "$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG"
This variable can contain one or more debug domain names to display debug output
for. The value \fIall\fP will enable all debug output. The default is for no
debug output to be enabled.
.\"
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.IX Header "EXIT STATUS"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP may return one of several error codes if it encounters
problems.
.\"
.IP "0" 4
.IX Item "0"
No problems occurred. The Avahi service file was successfully updated if
necessary.
.\"
.IP "1" 4
.IX Item "1"
There was an error while updating or deleting the Avahi service file.
.\"
.IP "2" 4
.IX Item "2"
An invalid option was passed to \fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP on startup.
.\"
.IP "3" 4
.IX Item "3"
The configuration file for \fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP could not be loaded or
parsed.
.\"
.SH "FILES"
.IX Header "FILES"
.\"
.IP \fI/etc/avahi/services/eos\-updater.service\fP 4
.IX Item "/etc/avahi/services/eos\-updater.service"
Describes the DNS\-SD record for Avahi to advertise to the local network. No
advertisement will be made if this file is not present. This is the file which
\fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP adds, updates and removes when run.
.\"
.IP \fI/etc/avahi/services/eos\-ostree\-updater\-[0–65535].service\fP 4
.IX Item "/etc/avahi/services/eos-ostree-updater\-[0–65535].service"
Similarly to the \fI/etc/avahi/services/eos\-updater.service\fP file,
it describes the DNS\-SD record for Avahi, but a different DNS-SD record
format is used. Many files can exist, one for each advertised repository.
These files are managed by \fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP.
.\"
.IP \fI/etc/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf\fP 4
.IX Item "/etc/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf"
.IX Item "/usr/local/share/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf"
.IX Item "/usr/share/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf"
Configuration file for \fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP. Defaults are loaded from
\fI/usr/local/share/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf\fP (if present) or
\fI/usr/share/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf\fP. See
\fBeos\-update\-server.conf\fP(5).
.\"
.IP \fI/lib/systemd/system/eos\-updater\-avahi.path\fP 4
.IX Item "/lib/systemd/system/eos\-updater\-avahi.path"
\fBsystemd\fP(1) path file which triggers \fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP to run
when conditions change. See \fBsystemd.path\fP(5).
.\"
.IP \fI/lib/systemd/system/eos\-updater\-avahi.service\fP 4
.IX Item "/lib/systemd/system/eos\-updater\-avahi.service"
\fBsystemd\fP(1) service file which specifies the runtime environment for
\fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP. See \fBsystemd.service\fP(5).
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.\"
\fBeos\-update\-server\fP(8),
\fBeos\-updater\fP(8),
\fBeos\-update\-server.conf\fP(5)
.PP
\fBavahi\-browse\fP(1)
.PP
\fIhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNS\-SD\fP,
\fIhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multicast_DNS\fP,
\fIhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Group_Management_Protocol\fP
.\"
.SH BUGS
.IX Header "BUGS"
.\"
Any bugs which are found should be reported on the project website:
.br
\fIhttps://support.endlessm.com/\fP
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.IX Header "AUTHOR"
.\"
Endless Mobile, Inc.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
.\"
Copyright © 2017 Endless Mobile, Inc.
