.\" Manpage for eos-update-server.conf.
.\" Documentation is under the same licence as the eos-updater package.
.TH man 5 "28 Feb 2017" "1.0" "eos\-update\-server.conf man page"
.\"
.SH NAME
.IX Header "NAME"
eos\-update\-server.conf — Endless OS OSTree Server Configuration
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
\fB/etc/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf\fP
.br
\fB/usr/local/share/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf\fP
.br
\fB/usr/share/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf\fP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
\fBeos\-update\-server.conf\fP provides the configuration for
\fBeos\-update\-server\fP(8) and \fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP(8). It determines
whether the server and its DNS\-SD adverts are enabled to distribute Endless OS
updates to other computers on the local network.
.PP
The configuration file contains a single section, \fI[Local Network Updates]\fP,
whose keys are described below.
.PP
Default values are stored in
\fI/usr/share/eos\-updater/eos\-update\-server.conf\fP, which must always
exist. To override the configuration, copy it to
\fI/usr/local/share/eos\-updater/\fP or \fI/etc/eos\-updater/\fP. Configuration
in \fI/etc\fP overrides that in \fI/usr\fP.
.\"
.SH [Local Network Updates] SECTION OPTIONS
.IX Header "[Local Network Updates] SECTION OPTIONS"
.\"
.IP "\fIAdvertiseUpdates=\fP"
.IX Item "AdvertiseUpdates="
Whether to advertise and distribute updates over the local network. This may be
\fItrue\fP or \fIfalse\fP. If \fItrue\fP, \fBeos\-update\-server\fP(8) and
\fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP(8) are enabled; otherwise, they will both refuse to
advertise or distribute updates.
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater\fP(8),
\fBeos\-updater\-avahi\fP(8),
\fBeos\-update\-server\fP(8)
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.IX Header "AUTHOR"
.\"
Endless Mobile, Inc.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
.\"
Copyright © 2017 Endless Mobile, Inc.
