.\" Manpage for eos-autoupdater.conf.
.\" Documentation is under the same licence as the eos-updater package.
.TH man 8 "28 Feb 2017" "1.0" "eos\-autoupdater.conf man page"
.\"
.SH NAME
.IX Header "NAME"
eos\-autoupdater.conf — Endless OS Automatic Updater Configuration
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
\fB/etc/eos\-updater/eos\-autoupdater.conf\fP
.br
\fB/usr/local/share/eos\-updater/eos\-autoupdater.conf\fP
.br
\fB/usr/share/eos\-updater/eos\-autoupdater.conf\fP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
\fBeos\-autoupdater.conf\fP provides the configuration for
\fBeos\-autoupdater\fP(8). It sets the policies for how often the updater will
check for updates, how far through the update process it goes automatically,
and what network connections to download updates over.
.PP
The configuration file contains a single section, \fI[Automatic Updates]\fP,
whose keys are described below.
.PP
Default values are stored in
\fI/usr/share/eos\-updater/eos\-autoupdater.conf\fP, which must always exist.
To override the configuration, copy it to \fI/usr/local/share/eos\-updater/\fP
or \fI/etc/eos\-updater/\fP. Configuration in \fI/etc\fP overrides that in
\fI/usr\fP.
.PP
This configuration file used to be installed as \fI/etc/eos\-updater.conf\fP.
If that file is present, its values will be overridden by any in
\fI/etc/eos\-updater/eos\-autoupdater.conf\fP, but it will override any
configuration in \fI/usr\fP.
.\"
.SH [Automatic Updates] SECTION OPTIONS
.IX Header "[Automatic Updates] SECTION OPTIONS"
.\"
.IP "\fILastAutomaticStep=\fP"
.IX Item "LastAutomaticStep="
Identifier for the last stage of the update process which will be run
automatically by \fBeos\-autoupdater\fP(8) — stages after this require manual
triggering by the user. Use \fI0\fP for no automatic progress; \fI1\fP to poll
for updates; \fI2\fP to poll and fetch updates; and \fI3\fP to poll, fetch and
apply updates automatically.
.\"
.IP "\fIIntervalDays=\fP"
.IX Item "IntervalDays="
Number of days to wait between checks for updates. If \fBeos\-autoupdater\fP(8)
is triggered earlier than this number of days after the most recent successful
update, it will exit. It must be \fI0\fP or greater. An interval of \fI0\fP
days means that checks for updates are not rate limited.
.\"
.IP "\fIUpdateOnMobile=\fP"
.IX Item "UpdateOnMobile="
Whether to check for and download updates when connected to the internet over a
mobile internet connection, such as GPRS or 3G. This may be \fItrue\fP or
\fIfalse\fP.
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.\"
\fBeos\-autoupdater\fP(8),
\fBeos\-updater\fP(8)
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.IX Header "AUTHOR"
.\"
Endless Mobile, Inc.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
.\"
Copyright © 2017 Endless Mobile, Inc.
