.\" Manpage for eos-updater.conf.
.\" Documentation is under the same licence as the eos-updater package.
.TH man 5 "28 Feb 2017" "1.0" "eos\-updater.conf man page"
.\"
.SH NAME
.IX Header "NAME"
eos\-updater.conf — Endless OS Updater Configuration
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
\fB/etc/eos\-updater/eos\-updater.conf\fP
.br
\fB/usr/local/share/eos\-updater/eos\-updater.conf\fP
.br
\fB/usr/share/eos\-updater/eos\-updater.conf\fP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
\fBeos\-updater.conf\fP provides the configuration for \fBeos\-updater\fP(8).
It determines which sources the updater should check for updates from, and
provides the necessary configuration for sources which need it.
.PP
The configuration file contains a mandatory section, \fI[Download]\fP, and an
optional per\-source section, \fI[Source "volume"]\fP, whose keys are described
below.
.PP
Default values are stored in \fI/usr/share/eos\-updater/eos\-updater.conf\fP,
which must always exist. To override the configuration, copy it to
\fI/usr/local/share/eos\-updater/\fP or \fI/etc/eos\-updater/\fP. Configuration
in \fI/etc\fP overrides that in \fI/usr\fP.
.\"
.SH [Download] SECTION OPTIONS
.IX Header "[Download] SECTION OPTIONS"
.\"
.IP "\fIOrder=\fP"
.IX Item "Order="
A semicolon\-separated list of sources to check for updates, with the most
important listed first. The available sources are \fImain\fP, \fIlan\fP and
\fIvolume\fP; corresponding to updates from the Endless Mobile servers on the
internet, updates from other computers on the local network (see
\fBeos\-update\-server\fP(8)) and updates from a connected USB drive (see
\fBeos\-updater\-prepare\-volume\fP(8)).
.PP
If the \fIvolume\fP source is listed, the \fI[Source "volume"]\fP section must
also be present in the file. Otherwise, it is ignored.
.\"
.SH "[Source ""volume""] SECTION OPTIONS"
.IX Header "[Source ""volume""] SECTION OPTIONS"
.\"
.IP "\fIPath=\fP"
.IX Item "Path="
Path to the mounted USB drive to fetch updates from. If this does not exist,
updating from the USB drive will be skipped. This option must be set if the
\fIvolume\fP source is listed in \fIDownload.Order\fP.
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.\"
\fBeos\-autoupdater\fP(8),
\fBeos\-updater\fP(8)
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.IX Header "AUTHOR"
.\"
Endless Mobile, Inc.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
.\"
Copyright © 2017 Endless Mobile, Inc.
